#### [Home](../README.md) | [Code 102](../102main.md) | [Code 201](../201main.md) | [Code 301](../301main.md) | [Code 401](../401main.md)
***
# Code 301 | Reading 11 - Mongo and Mongoose
## Reading
[nosql vs sql](https://www.thegeekstuff.com/2014/01/sql-vs-nosql-db/?utm_source=tuicool)

Fill in the chart below with five differences between SQL and NoSQL databases:

| **SQL**                | **NoSQL**                       |
|:----------------------:|:-------------------------------:|
| relational database    | non-relational or "distributed" database  |
| table-based databases  | document-based, key-value pairs, graph databases, or wide-column stores  |
| predefined schema      | dynamic schema for unstructured data |
|  vertically scalable   | horizontally scalable |
| use SQL (structured query language) | focused on a collection of documents |

1. **What kind of data is a good fit for an SQL database?** Maybe .csv files, or some kind of data that can be rendered into a table. 
2. **Give a real world example.** I'm thinking about the large datasets you can download in reports, etc. For example, on Amazon you can download a full history of your orders. This is downloaded in a .csv file, which you can then open in Excel and it automatically converts the comma-delimited nature of the data into spreadsheet cells.
3. **What kind of data is a good fit a NoSQL database?** Items like documents, graphs, key-value pairs are a good fit for NoSQL databases.
4. **Give a real world example.** .json files are a perfect example of data that can be included in a NoSQL databse.
5. **Which type of database is best for hierarchical data storage?** NoSQL
6. **Which type of database is best for scalability?** SQL

### Videos
[sql vs nosql](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZS_kXvOeQ5Y)

1. **What does SQL stand for?** Structured Query Language
2. **What is a relational database?** A type of database that stores and provides access to data points that are related to one another
3. **What type of structure does a relational database work with?** Tables
4. **What is a "schema"?** A collection of database objects associated with a database.
5. **What is a NoSQL database?** it stands for "Not Only SQL" or "non SQL" and stores data in a non-tabular way
6. **How does it work?** NoSQL databases store data in a variety of types: key-value, graph, wide-column, and graph
7. **What is inside of a Mongo database?** MongoDB contains collections which in turn contain documents. Each document can be different with a varying number of fields.
8. **Which is more flexible - SQL or MongoDB? Why?** MongoDB is more flexible than SQL 
9. **What is the disadvantage of a NoSQL database?** NoSQL databases don't have the same reliability functions that SQL databases have ("ACID" or **A**tomicity, **C**onsistency, **I**solation, **D**urability)

### Bookmark/Skim
[mongoose api](https://mongoosejs.com/docs/api.html#Model)

***
#### [Home](../README.md) | [Code 102](../102main.md) | [Code 201](../201main.md) | [Code 301](../301main.md) | [Code 401](../401main.md)