#### [Home](../README.md) | [Code 102](../102main.md) | [Code 201](../201main.md) | [Code 301](../301main.md) | [Code 401](../401main.md)
***
# Code 301 | Reading 5 - Putting It All Together
## Reading
[React Docs - thinking in React](https://reactjs.org/docs/thinking-in-react.html)

**1. How would you break a mock into a component hierarchy?**\
Start by drawing boxes around components and giving them all names.

**2. What is the `single responsibility principle` and how does it apply to components?**\
Each component should (ideally) do one thing.

**3. What does it mean to build a "static" version of your application?**\
In the initial rendering of the site, only use props, don't use state. Hard-coding everything into the site is what's going to at least build a 'scaffold' upon which you can work. (I see it as similar to building out HTML and CSS before you add any JS.)

**4. Once you have a static application, what do you need to add?**\


**5. What are the three questions you can ask to determine if something is state?**\
- Is it passed in from a parent via props? If so, it probably isn’t state.
- Does it remain unchanged over time? If so, it probably isn’t state.
- Can you compute it based on any other state or props in your component? If so, it isn’t state.

**6. How can you identify where state needs to live?**\
Identify each component that renders something based on that state, find a common parent component and use that component to own state. \
Alternatively, you could create an entirely new component for holding state, and add it somewhere it can be parent to the child components.

***
#### [Home](../README.md) | [Code 102](../102main.md) | [Code 201](../201main.md) | [Code 301](../301main.md) | [Code 401](../401main.md)