#### [Home](../README.md) | [Code 102](../102main.md) | [Code 201](../201main.md) | [Code 301](../301main.md) | [Code 401](../401main.md)
***
# Code 301 | Reading 14 - Authentication
## Reading
[What is OAuth](https://www.csoonline.com/article/3216404/what-is-oauth-how-the-open-authorization-framework-works.html)

**1. What is OAuth?**\
OAuth is an open-standard authorization protocol or framework that describes how unrelated servers and serves can safely allow authenticated access to their assets without actually sharing the initial related, single logon credential. In authentication parlance, this is known as secure, third-party, user-agent, delegated authorization.

**2. Give an example of what using OAuth would look like.**\
When you're registering for a site, it will sometimes ask if you want to use your Google, Apple, Microsoft, etc. login credentials to register or log in.

**3. How does OAuth work? What are the steps that it takes to authenticate the user?**\
1. The first website connects to the second website on behalf of the user, using OAuth, providing the user’s verified identity.
2. The second site generates a one-time token and a one-time secret unique to the transaction and parties involved.
3. The first site gives this token and secret to the initiating user’s client software.
4. The client’s software presents the request token and secret to their authorization provider (which may or may not be the second site).
5. If not already authenticated to the authorization provider, the client may be asked to authenticate. After authentication, the client is asked to approve the authorization transaction to the second website.
6. The user approves (or their software silently approves) a particular transaction type at the first website.
7. The user is given an approved access token (notice it’s no longer a request token).
8. The user gives the approved access token to the first website.
9. The first website gives the access token to the second website as proof of authentication on behalf of the user.
10. The second website lets the first website access their site on behalf of the user.
11. The user sees a successfully completed transaction occurring.
12. OAuth is not the first authentication/authorization system to work this way on behalf of the end-user. In fact, many authentication systems, notably Kerberos, work similarly. What is special about OAuth is its ability to work across the web and its wide adoption. It succeeded with adoption rates where previous attempts failed (for various reasons).

**4. What is OpenID?**\
OAuth is about authorization, but OpenID is about authentication. Per a user on StackOverflow: "OpenID is for humans logging into machines, OAuth is for machines logging into machines on behalf of humans."

[Authorization and Authentication flows](https://auth0.com/docs/flows)\
**1. What is the difference between authorization and authentication?**\
Authentication is the process of verifying who a user is, while authorization is the process of verifying what they have access to.

**2. What is Authorization Code Flow?**\
Authorization Code Flow exchanges Authorization Code for a token.

**3. What is Authorization Code Flow with Proof Key for Code Exchange (PKCE)?**\
OAuth 2.0 provides a version of the Authorization Code Flow which makes use of a Proof Key for Code Exchange (PKCE). The PKCE-enhanced Authorization Code Flow adds a 'secret' that's asked by the calling application that can be authorized by the receiving server, the "Code Verifier." This prevents any interceptor from getting the token without the Code Verifier.

**4. What is Implicit Flow with Form Post?**\
Implicit Flow is intended for public clients (apps that aren't able to store 'secrets').

**5. What is Client Credentials Flow?**\
Client credentials flow is when Machine-to-Machine (M2M) applications pass their client ID and client secret to authenticate themselves.

**6. What is Device Authorization Flow?**\
Device Authorization Flow is when you're asked to go to a link on your computer or smartphone to register or authorize a device. 

**7. What is Resource Owner Password Flow?**\
Resource Owner Password Flow is used when you are using an trusted application that will store your login credentials for you. 

### Bookmark/Skim
[Auth0 for single page apps](https://auth0.com/docs/libraries/auth0-react)

***
#### [Home](../README.md) | [Code 102](../102main.md) | [Code 201](../201main.md) | [Code 301](../301main.md) | [Code 401](../401main.md)