#### [Home](../README.md) | [Code 102](../102main.md) | [Code 201](../201main.md) | [Code 301](../301main.md) | [Code 401](../401main.md)

---

# Code 401 | Reading 35: Graphs

-   ### Read this article on [Graphs](https://codefellows.github.io/common_curriculum/data_structures_and_algorithms/Code_401/class-35/resources/graphs.html) and include notes below.

## **Key Terms**

| Term              | Definition                                                                                                            |
| ----------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| graph             | non-linear data structure that consists of a collection of vertices or nodes, connected by line segments called edges |
| vertex / vertices | data object that can have zero or more adjacent vertices; also referred to as node/nodes                              |
| edge              | connection between two vertices or nodes                                                                              |
| neighbor          | neighbors of a vertex or nodes                                                                                        |
| degree            | number of edges connected to that vertex or node                                                                      |

---

## **Directed vs. Undirected Graphs**

-   ### **Undirected Graphs**
    `Undirected graphs` have edges that are undirected or bi-directional. The graph doesn't move in any direction.
-   ### **Directed Graphs**
    `Directed Graphs`, also referred to as `Digraphs`, where every edge is directed towards another specific vertex or node.  
    A Digraph has direction in that each node or vertex is directed at another node, with a specific requirement of what node should be referenced next.

## **Complete vs. Connected vs. Disconnected Graphs**

There are three different types of graphs that depend on how nodes/vertices are connected to each other: complete, connected, and disconnected.

-   ### **Complete Graphs**
    Complete graphs are when all nodes are connected to all other nodes
-   ### **Connected Graphs**
    Connected graphs are when every node or vertex has at least one edge
-   ### **Disconnected Graphs**
    Disconnected graphs are when some vertices don't have edges (that is: some vertices or nodes may not be connected to anything)

## **Acyclic vs. Cyclic Graphs**

-   ### **Acyclic Graphs**
    An acyclic graph is a directed graph without cycles. A cycle is when a node can be traversed through and potentially end up back at itself.
-   ### **Cyclic Graphs**
    Cyclic graphs are defined as a path of positive length that starts and ends at the same vertex.

## **Graph Representation**

-   ### **Adjacency Matrix**
    An Adjacency matrix is represented through a 2-dimensional array. If there are n vertices, then we are looking at an n x n Boolean matrix.

Each Row and column represents each vertex of the data structure. The elements of both the column and the row must add up to 1 if there is an edge that connects the two, or zero if there isn’t a connection.

A **sparse** graph is when there are very few connections. A **dense** graph is when there are many connections. Within an adjacency matrix, an undirected graph will always be symmetric; however, this is not the case for a directed graph.

-   ### **Adjacency List**
    An adjacency list is the most common way to represent graphs. An adjacency list is a collection of linked lists or array that lists all of the other vertices that are connected. Adjacency lists make it easy to view if one vertices connects to another.

## **Weighted Graphs**

A weighted graph is a graph with numbers assigned to its edges; the numbers are referred to as "weights."

## **Traversals**

You will be required to traverse through a graph. The traversals itself are like those of trees. Below is a breakdown of how you would traverse a graph.

-   ### **Breadth First**

    In breadth-first traversals, start at a specific vertex or node, which you will use when calling the BreadthFirst() method.  
		This is similar to that of a tree except that graphs can have cycles. Traversing a graph that has cycles will result in an infinite loop.  
		To prevent this, we need to track of whether a vertex has been “visited” before. Upon each visit, we’ll add the previously-unvisited vertex to a visited set (MAP), so we know not to visit it again as traversal continues.  
		

-   ### **Depth First**
    Depth-first tranversals of graphs are different than that of trees. Similar to how the breadth-first uses a `queue`, `stacks` are used for depth-first traversals.

The algorithm for a depth-first traversal is as follows:

1. `Push` the root node into the stack
1. Start a while loop while the stack is not empty
1. `Peek` at the top node in the stack
1. If the top node has unvisited children, mark the top node as visited, and then `Push` any unvisited children back into the stack.
1. If the top node does not have any unvisited children, `Pop` that node off the stack
1. Repeat until the stack is empty.

---

#### [Home](../README.md) | [Code 102](../102main.md) | [Code 201](../201main.md) | [Code 301](../301main.md) | [Code 401](../401main.md)
